# staruml-ruby

staruml-ruby is a Ruby extension for [StarUML][staruml] 2. This extension helps you
to generate Ruby code from a UML class diagram.

## Installation

There are several ways to install this extension. You can install manually, via
StarUML extension repository, or via URL. **I strongly recommend installing via
StarUML extension repository**.

### Manual

If you decide to install manually. Please, follow these steps below.

1. Download the latest package of staruml-ruby [here][release].
2. Create a new folder `meisyal.starumlruby` in this location. Location depends on
   your operating system.

   * Mac OS X: `~/Library/Application Support/StarUML/extensions/user`
   * Windows: `C:\Users\<user>\AppData\Roaming\StarUML\extensions\user`
   * Linux: `~/.config/StarUML/extensions/user`

3. Extract the package in the new extension folder.
4. Open or restart StarUML if you have already opened it.

Internet connection is needed before installing extension via StarUML extension
repository and URL.

### via StarUML extension repository

Open the StarUML extension manager (**Tools** -> **Extension Manager...**) and
install the Ruby extension. I recommend this installation method because it is
going to install the stable version of the extension. Beside that, the installed
extension is from StarUML extension repository (it means the extension is officially
registered).

### via URL

Follow these steps below.

1. Open the StarUML extension manager (**Tools** -> **Extension Manager...**).
2. Select **Install From URL...** button in the bottom left corner of the pop
   window.
3. Enter the following URL `https://github.com/meisyal/staruml-ruby`.
4. Open or restart StarUML if you are already opening it.

At last, open the StarUML extension manager (**Tools** -> **Extension Manager...**)
and then click **Installed** tab to make sure this extension is successfully
installed.

## Current Status

This extension currently supports generating Ruby code from a UML class diagram.

### Supported UML Concepts

This tool supports StarUML model below.

**Classes**

* tool will generate a separated `.rb` file that contains a Ruby class.
* the generated file name will be `snake_case.rb` (file name refers to the name of
  Ruby class).
* constructor is generated by default (`def initialize` method).
* a to string instance method is generated by default (`def to_s` method).
* code documentation will be generated at the top of class name.

**Attributes of clasess**
* methods for set and get attributes are generated by default (it doesn't use
  `attr_accessor :an_attribute`).
* methods for set and get attributes are grouped by theirs visibility. Same
  condition is applied for attribute accessor.
* code documentation will be generated at the top of attribute accessor
  declaration if it uses attribute accessor rather than set and get attributes.

**Methods of classes**

* tool will generate a grouped method based on its visibility (`public`,
  `protected`, and `private` methods).
* the generated method name is same as your method name in the model.
* code documentation will be generated at the top of method name.

**Method Parameters**

tool will generate method parameters.

**Generalization**

* tool will generate a separated `.rb` file that contains an inheritance class.
* the generated class name will be `class DerivedClass < BaseClass`.
* constructor and a to string instance method are generated by default.

**Packages**

* tool will convert to Ruby module (as a folder with name `packagename`
  folder).
* the `packagename` folder contains classes that belong to the package.
* code documentation will be generated at the top of package name.

## How to use this extension

Please, follow these steps below.

1. Click the menu (**Tools** -> **Ruby** -> **Generate Code...**).
2. Select a model which will be generated its code in the pop window. And then,
   click **OK**.
3. Select the location where the generated code will be placed.
4. The generated code will be generated in the place where you defined before.

## How to configure this extension

You can configure the extension before generating the code.

1. Click the menu (**Tools** -> **Ruby** -> **Configure...**).
2. Manage the configuration for code generation (there are some options there). You
   can always restore default configurations.
3. Click **Close** when you have configured it.

## Documentation

Documentation is available at [staruml-ruby GitHub Wiki][wiki]. Documentation
contains a lot more detail on examples, use and features, and roadmap.

## Contributing

Before submitting an issue or a pull request, please take a moment to look over
the [contributing guidelines][contributing] first.

## License

This extension is released under the terms of MIT License. See the [LICENSE][license]
file for more details.

Copyright &copy; 2016 Andrias Meisyal.

[staruml]: http://staruml.io
[release]: https://github.com/meisyal/staruml-ruby/releases
[wiki]: https://github.com/meisyal/staruml-ruby/wiki
[contributing]:
https://github.com/meisyal/staruml-ruby/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
[LICENSE]: https://github.com/meisyal/staruml-ruby/blob/master/LICENSE
